README.md, before:

# Telegram Storage Bot

A Telegram bot that allows users to store and organize files, media, and documents into categories, and access them anytime.

<div align="center">

## 🚀 Try the Bot Now

<a href="https://t.me/letssaveitbot">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram-%40letssaveit-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=telegram&logoColor=white" alt="Telegram @letssaveit" width="250"/>
</a>

</div>

---

## ✨ Features

- 📁 Store any type of file (photos, videos, documents, audio, voice messages, animations)
- 🗂️ Organize files into custom categories
- 🔍 Browse and retrieve files by category
- ⚙️ Create and delete categories

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- A Telegram Bot Token (created via @BotFather)
- A private Telegram channel where the bot is an admin

## 🐳 Docker Deployment

### Running with Docker

1. Make sure you have Docker installed on your system.

2. Build the Docker image:
```bash
docker build -t telegram-storage-bot .
```

3. Create a data directory for persistent storage:
```bash
mkdir -p data
```

4. Run the container:
```bash
docker run -d --name telegram-bot \
  -v $(pwd)/data:/app/data \
  --env-file .env \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  telegram-storage-bot
```

### Using Docker Compose

1. Simply run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## 🚀 Deploying to Render

### Option 1: Deploy via Dashboard

1. Create a new Web Service on Render.

2. Connect your GitHub repository.

3. Choose "Docker" as the environment.

4. Configure the following environment variables in the Render dashboard:
   - `BOT_TOKEN=your_bot_token`
   - `CHANNEL_ID=your_channel_id`
   - `CHANNEL_FIRST_MESSAGE_ID=2`

5. Set these additional options:
   - Set the port to `10000`
   - Enable disk persistence with at least 1GB mounted at `/app/data`

6. Deploy the service.

### Option 2: Deploy via render.yaml

1. Push your code to a GitHub repository.

2. Add your environment variables to the `render.yaml` file (uncomment and fill in the values).

3. Go to the Render dashboard and choose "Blueprint" deployment.

4. Connect your repository and Render will automatically configure the service.

### Important Notes for Render

- The bot will automatically run in webhook mode when deployed on Render, making it more responsive.
- The bot includes a health check server on port 8080 that Render uses to determine if the service is running.
- Make sure to use disk persistence for the `/app/data` directory to maintain your database between deployments.
- The free tier of Render spins down after periods of inactivity, which may affect your bot's response time.

## 📚 Usage

After starting the bot with `/start`, you can interact with it using the following commands:

### Available Commands

- `/start` - Initialize the bot and see the welcome message
- `/menu` - Open the main menu with all available options
- `/files` - Browse your stored files by category
- `/categories` - Manage your file categories
- `/delete` - Delete unwanted categories
- `/help` - Show detailed help information

### Storing Files

1. **Direct Method**:
   - Simply send any file (photo, video, document, audio, voice message, animation) to the bot
   - Choose a category from the list or create a new one
   - The file will be stored in the selected category

2. **From Categories Menu**:
   - Use `/categories` command
   - Select an existing category or create a new one
   - Send files to add them to the category
   - Click "Done" when finished

3. **From Browsing Interface**:
   - While browsing files, use the "Add Files" button
   - Send files to add them to the current category
   - Click "Done" when finished or "Back to Browse" to return to viewing files

### Browsing and Retrieving Files

1. Use the `/files` command or the "Browse Files" button in the main menu
2. Select a category to view its files
3. The bot will display files in pages of 10 items with:
   - File number and name
   - Navigation controls (Previous/Next page)
   - "Add Files" button to add more files to the current category
4. Use the pagination controls to navigate between pages if you have more than 10 files

### Managing Categories

- **Creating Categories**:
  - Use "Create New Category" option in the categories menu
  - Enter a name for your new category
  - Or, send a file and select "Create New Category" when prompted

- **Browsing Categories**:
  - Use `/files` command to see all categories with file counts
  - Select a category to view its contents

- **Deleting Categories**:
  - Use `/delete` command
  - Select the category you want to delete
  - Confirmation will be shown when deleted successfully

### Session Management

- Use the "Done" button to complete the current operation and return to the main menu
- Use "Back" buttons to navigate to previous screens
- Send `/start` at any time to reset the conversation

### Important Notes

- Files are securely stored on Telegram servers
- The bot uses inline buttons for navigation, making it easy to use
- When deployed on Render's free tier, the bot may experience a slight delay (30-60 seconds) when receiving the first message after a period of inactivity
- Subsequent messages will be processed quickly once the service is running

Commit message:

Refactor database management to use MongoDB, replacing file-based storage. Implemented backup and restore functionalities for user data, updated Docker and health check scripts for MongoDB integration, and modified README for clarity on data storage. Added necessary environment variables and improved error handling.

README.md, after:

# Telegram Storage Bot

A Telegram bot that allows users to store and organize files, media, and documents into categories, and access them anytime.

<div align="center">

## 🚀 Try the Bot Now

<a href="https://t.me/letssaveitbot">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram-%40letssaveit-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=telegram&logoColor=white" alt="Telegram @letssaveit" width="250"/>
</a>

</div>

---

## ✨ Features

- 📁 Store any type of file (photos, videos, documents, audio, voice messages, animations)
- 🗂️ Organize files into custom categories
- 🔍 Browse and retrieve files by category
- ⚙️ Create and delete categories

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- A Telegram Bot Token (created via @BotFather)
- A private Telegram channel where the bot is an admin
- MongoDB database (the bot uses MongoDB Atlas by default)

## 🐳 Docker Deployment

### Running with Docker

1. Make sure you have Docker installed on your system.

2. Build the Docker image:
```bash
docker build -t telegram-storage-bot .
```

3. Create a data directory for persistent storage:
```bash
mkdir -p data
```

4. Run the container:
```bash
docker run -d --name telegram-bot \
  -v $(pwd)/data:/app/data \
  --env-file .env \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  telegram-storage-bot
```

### Using Docker Compose

1. Simply run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## 🚀 Deploying to Render

### Option 1: Deploy via Dashboard

1. Create a new Web Service on Render.

2. Connect your GitHub repository.

3. Choose "Docker" as the environment.

4. Configure the following environment variables in the Render dashboard:
   - `BOT_TOKEN=your_bot_token`
   - `CHANNEL_ID=your_channel_id`
   - `MONGO_URI=your_mongodb_connection_string`

5. Set these additional options:
   - Set the port to `10000`
   - Enable disk persistence with at least 1GB mounted at `/app/data`

6. Deploy the service.

### Option 2: Deploy via render.yaml

1. Push your code to a GitHub repository.

2. Add your environment variables to the `render.yaml` file (uncomment and fill in the values).

3. Go to the Render dashboard and choose "Blueprint" deployment.

4. Connect your repository and Render will automatically configure the service.

### Important Notes for Render

- The bot will automatically run in webhook mode when deployed on Render, making it more responsive.
- The bot includes a health check server on port 8080 that Render uses to determine if the service is running.
- User data and file references are stored in MongoDB for persistence and reliability.
- Make sure to use disk persistence for the `/app/data` directory for storing backups.
- The free tier of Render spins down after periods of inactivity, which may affect your bot's response time.

## 📚 Usage

After starting the bot with `/start`, you can interact with it using the following commands:

### Available Commands

- `/start` - Initialize the bot and see the welcome message
- `/menu` - Open the main menu with all available options
- `/files` - Browse your stored files by category
- `/categories` - Manage your file categories
- `/delete` - Delete unwanted categories
- `/help` - Show detailed help information

### Storing Files

1. **Direct Method**:
   - Simply send any file (photo, video, document, audio, voice message, animation) to the bot
   - Choose a category from the list or create a new one
   - The file will be stored in the selected category

2. **From Categories Menu**:
   - Use `/categories` command
   - Select an existing category or create a new one
   - Send files to add them to the category
   - Click "Done" when finished

3. **From Browsing Interface**:
   - While browsing files, use the "Add Files" button
   - Send files to add them to the current category
   - Click "Done" when finished or "Back to Browse" to return to viewing files

### Browsing and Retrieving Files

1. Use the `/files` command or the "Browse Files" button in the main menu
2. Select a category to view its files
3. The bot will display files in pages of 10 items with:
   - File number and name
   - Navigation controls (Previous/Next page)
   - "Add Files" button to add more files to the current category
4. Use the pagination controls to navigate between pages if you have more than 10 files

### Managing Categories

- **Creating Categories**:
  - Use "Create New Category" option in the categories menu
  - Enter a name for your new category
  - Or, send a file and select "Create New Category" when prompted

- **Browsing Categories**:
  - Use `/files` command to see all categories with file counts
  - Select a category to view its contents

- **Deleting Categories**:
  - Use `/delete` command
  - Select the category you want to delete
  - Confirmation will be shown when deleted successfully

### Session Management

- Use the "Done" button to complete the current operation and return to the main menu
- Use "Back" buttons to navigate to previous screens
- Send `/start` at any time to reset the conversation

### Important Notes

- Files are securely stored on Telegram servers
- User data is stored in MongoDB for reliability and persistence
- The bot uses inline buttons for navigation, making it easy to use
- When deployed on Render's free tier, the bot may experience a slight delay (30-60 seconds) when receiving the first message after a period of inactivity
- Subsequent messages will be processed quickly once the service is running

## Data Storage

The bot uses MongoDB to store:
- User categories
- References to files stored on Telegram
- MongoDB ensures data persistence even if users delete and re-add the bot

The actual files are stored on Telegram's servers in a dedicated channel, maintaining them securely while the bot only stores references to these files.
